---
title: "Candidate-Market Fit \[CMF\] and Goals"
date: 2025-01-16T15:34:30-04:00
categories:
  - blog
tags:
  - CMF
  - goals
  - product
  - book
  - update
---

Candidate-Market Fit \[CMF\] and Goals
======================================

The CMF idea comes from Phyl Terry\'s book, *Never Search Alone: The Job
Seeker\'s Playbook*. Simply don\'t offer to do a job that the Market
isn\'t looking for nor needs: rather understand what is required and
move forward with that.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

###### My Candidate-Market Fit \[CMF\]

*Seeking a remote **Product Manager** role with attention to UX at an
early stage (Series C, Pre-IPO/ICO) **Crypto** B2C company with emphasis
on social impact, real-life assets, music and media industries.*

\#crypto \#IP-rights \#real-world-assets \#music \#streaming \#NFTs \#AI
\#B2C \#B2B2C

###### My Mnookin 2-pager

What am I very good at? Figuring out further in a
[2-pager](benji--mnookin-product-manager.pdf).

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### → My notes on Candidate-Market Fit \[CMF\] and Mnookin 2-pager

You may disagree, this is what I see works best.

-   The main goal of the CMF is to summarize, if possible in a single
    sentence, what you believe is the best place for you in the market.
    Highlight the desired role with a specific typography, and some
    other important detail, focus on **narrowing down**. Example:
    *Product Manager* seeking in *Crypto*, real-life assets, B2B2C. You
    can add industry, company stage (if startup), and/or desired
    company/team size, by numbers, also if you have location preference.
-   The idea with the Mnookin 2-pager is to share your interests and
    strengths in a realistic way in networking. [Keep it simple, Stupid
    \[KISS\]](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/KISS_principle): what you
    show should be **easy and quick to read**. The aim is to have a
    2-pager. Make it longer, and people may read it less. Make it
    shorter and you may not communicate well enough for others to
    remember your specifics.
-   Use Comprehensive Naming. Include, prominently: First and Last Name,
    and **main purpose of the document**, such as desired role. Apply
    this to document title, as well as to document file name. For
    instance "mnookin-benji-product-manager". (I know, I don't use my
    last name, that's another conversation). This may come handy that
    **people understand** and remember you and your roles better, and
    can also search you easier.
-   Be explicit, **avoid acronyms**, at least explain them the first
    time you mention an expression. For example: state "Product Manager
    \[PM\]", and only after use the short version such as "PM" This well
    help communicate across people that are not specialists in your
    area.
-   One thing that I find many people miss the target is with Must
    Haves. I've even said "I want a place with no bureaucracy". But how
    can you measure that, how can you find this about a company when you
    apply or when you're in a interviewing process? Use **SMART** Items:
    [Specific, Measurable, Achievable, Relevant, and
    Time-Bound](https://www.atlassian.com/blog/productivity/how-to-write-smart-goals)
    as much as possible.
    -   "I'd like to collaborate with many peers". *How many do you
        mean?*
    -   "I hate writing long documents". *How long is this? Is the
        problem rather that it isn't read afterward?*
-   The higher you move in the corporate ladder, the more important
    team-leading becomes, as **soft-skills**. If you have this natural
    skillset, put it at the top.
-   A huge area for improvement for all the personal documentation I've
    read so far is that almost all people get their weaknesses upside
    down: they state things that they don't like that aren't bad, or was
    just one complaint by one manager of peer. Nine times out of 10 you
    can use these as an advantage:
    -   "I'm not good at conveying ideas on the go". *Then this may mean
        that you think well and timely about something before speaking.*
    -   "Bad in small talk". *Most people are bad at small talk, it's a
        generational thing already. Understand [The Strength of Weak
        Ties, idea coined by Mark
        Granovetter](https://news.stanford.edu/stories/2023/07/strength-weak-ties)
        and value soft ties accordingly, and see if you can get better
        at it*. There\'s a funny video about this: [Small Talk, by
        Mostly True: 5
        minutes](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=T6r3fswUNSI)
        ::: {.embed-responsive .embed-responsive-16by9}
        :::

        ::: {.embed-responsive .embed-responsive-4by3}
        :::
-   Many people want a mission-driven company, me too. However consider
    (this is simply my opinion, I\'m aware) that the non-profit sector
    is less dynamic than the for profit, with less funding, and hence,
    somewhat less drive. So if too many people want to have **a
    purposeful role, maybe we need to build it** ourselves, instead of
    asking for it from someone else. Or find the (low amount of)
    companies that manage to make a profit while still purpose-driven.
-   Be careful about what you believe a company must have. Please
    distinguish that **nice-to-haves** can be set aside.
-   What's at stake with building a document about what you love and
    love not? You're re-evaluating your profile and career. Please
    review what you don't like if it's part of the job. Some Product
    Managers don't like managing stakeholders: of course some
    roles/companies may not be a good fit for every person. *Come as you
    are*. Otherwise, **train the skills that you need** for the role you
    seek, or identify companies that don't handle them as you like, and
    avoid them.
-   All this is a personal exercise at my own UX interest and ambition:
    try to make things, like reading, as easy and clear as possible for
    the person on the other side of the screen.

I hope this all helps, and that we keep in touch.

Here's my [now page](../now/).

